So far you should have some radical basics of how to make the tests work in LA all.
And also we have already run the default provided example tests.
So now let's actually test something for real.
So the first thing we might try testing are the two basic pages of our application then home and the
contact page.
So let's go to the Visual Studio code and create a new test so you can either just create the those
files manually inside the tests folder or you can use artisan to generate them.
So there is this command of artisan make test where you have to only specify the name of the new class
that it will create for you.
So we'll be testing the home controller the home page and the contact page.
So let's create our home test.
So it's it gets created inside the feature tests and we already have the class set up that extends the
correct based test case class and basic test basic almost empty test because it only checks if true
is true.
So we'll be using this traits later but for now let's just remove them because we do not need them at
this point.
And now let's see how we can test our front page.
The the home page.
So first we can start with actually getting this page.
Using this get
so remember that I told you about those three parts that the test usually consist of that all range
asked and served.
And in our case we will actually start with act because we are actually using something in this case
we do not have to prepare anything.
We just go ahead and fetch the home page and now by having this response we can actually do some assertions
immediately.
So now we are inside the search section.
So let's see what we can check.
It's very simple.
It only displays some text so we can make sure that their home page is displaying this title.
So let's copy it and create our first assertion.
Now we can assert if this text can actually be seen on that page and there is a method of this response
object that we get back from fetching the home page assert C text.
So on the Vikki page I've included a link to all the possible assertions that you can make when you
are testing your pages using the functional tests and using the HDP requests.
This is just one of them.
It's very simple.
It is just verifying whether we can see this takes on the response that is being returned from this
page.
So let's go ahead and run this tests.
So now we have free tests and free assertions and it is all green which means our text test was successful.
Additionally we have this paragraph so we can also check if it exists on the page.
So let's do response assert C text and paste this.
Now let's rerun the tests and we have now four assertions and everything is green.
So this really works very easily.
Now let's also rename this method because we need to make sure that our test names also describe it
very clearly what this test is doing.
So test example doesn't really say anything so we can name it like test home page or test.
Home page is working correctly.
So we do not really have to worry about the long names of your tests because you won't be calling this
test yourself.
And this will always be just called by peach unit.
So the more descriptive name you will give to our test the better.
So anyone else imagine your co-workers or you after some time when you might have forgot what an actual
test is doing then if you will see the test name to be very descriptive you will probably appreciate
that you have used descriptive name to name this test because you will be you will know exactly what
this test is doing.
So now let's go ahead and create another test so other public function test contact page is working
correctly so this method is just another test and we'll test another simple page.
The contact page so we will also fetch this page using this get.
But this time the URL is slash contact.
And now we can do the same assertions so asserts C text and we expect to see contact because that's
the title and we can even copy this because we know that there is also a paragraph simple paragraph.
Hello this is contact or whatever you have put in there and now let's rerun the tests and now you see
that we have four tests and six assertions and it is all passing.
Now if you would try to test for something else like you will remove part of this text save the Test
and run it again.
Now you can see that it is failing so it's a pretty cool way to check whenever any changes that we have
included inside our application actually break something so you won't really have to check that manually
you always just run your tests and then you make sure that every change that you have made doesn't break
anything else.
So now let's fix this test so this would be the basics of writing our tests.
You can see that this is extremely simple and in the next lecture we'll see how we can actually test
the pages that interact with the database and we will see how we can rebuild our database on each test.
So the database stays clean isolated and no single test will include will influence the results of any
other test.
So see you in the next lecture.